doc/baskets/README.md, before:

# Baskets
These Director baskets are predefined sets of import and sync rules, templates and groups that for the basis of setup for automationing objects out of Netbox.

While these baskets are related and can depend on each other to work "out of the box" you are encouraged to import only the bits that fit your requirements and modify them to suit your own need. 

The baskets setup Icinga objects directly related to Netbox objects as well as organization Icinga templates to make the management of related templates easier, eg: All Netbox Cluster objects imported as Icinga host templates have a parent template called `Netbox Clusters`.

## Host Automation
[`host-automation.json`](host-automation.json) imports Netbox Devices (`dcim/devices`) and Virtual Machines (`virtualization/virtual-machines`). 

_Hosts generally have their own sets of unique requirements for configuration. A virtual machine, AWS RDS instance and device will all have different host config requirements. The configuration provided here is a starting point for host automation based on the other baskets._

**Depends on in Netbox**

A Netbox custom field `icinga_import_source` as described in the [Zone and Endpoint Creation section of the main README](../../README.md) applied to Netbox Devices (`dcim/devices`) and Virtual Machines (`virtualization/virtual-machines`)

This custom field should have one selection option per import type such as `do_not_monitor`, `default`, `aws_rds` which will map to a source + object combination to create a unique Import Source data set.
eg:
- Default Devices
- Default Virtual Machines
- AWS RDS Virtual Machines

**Objects Created**
- Device Host 
- Device Host Group
- Virtual Machine Host
- Virtual Machine Host Group
- HostAlive Host Template (placeholder for all Hostalive templates)
  - hstt_alive_hostalive Host Template
- Netbox Object Type Host Template (placeholder for all Netbox Object Type templates)
  - hstt type device Host Template
  - hstt type virtual machine Host Template
- Netbox Source Host Template (placeholder for all `icinga_import_source` templates)
  - hstt import source default Host Template
- icinga_import_source Default Host Group

## Cluster Automation
[`cluster-automation.json`](cluster-automation.json) imports Netbox Clusters (`virtualization/clusters`), Cluster Types (`virtualization/cluster-types`) and Cluster Groups (`virtualization/cluster-groups`). 

The Netbox Cluster host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Cluster Host Template
- Cluster Host Group
- Cluster Type Host Template
- Cluster Type Host Group
- Cluster Group Host Template
- Cluster Group Host Group

## Endpoint Automation
[`endpoints-automation.json`](endpoints-automation.json) is the odd one out in this list of import. Endpoints aren't referening to a Netbox object that is being automated into Icinga but the creation of Icinga `Endpoints` and `Zones`.

Automation of endpoints from Netbox into Icinga has the advantage of allowing you to use Netbox as a way to automate the installation of endpoints using tools like Ansible, etc... because both Icinga and the installation automation tools are using the same source of truth.

**Depends on in Netbox**

A Netbox `tag` with the slug `icinga-endpoint` which would be applied to each device or virtual machine with Icinga to be installed on it. 

An alternative way to impliment this would be to have seperate tags for `icinga-satellite` and `icinga-agent` and have seperate imports sources and sync rules for each of these tags. The reason you need seperate import sources and sync rules with different tags is Netbox filters for tags are `and` not `or`, so we need seperate import sources.

If you have a Netbox custom field `icinga_import_source` as described in the [Zone and Endpoint Creation section of the main README](../../README.md) you can also add that to the filters. 


**Objects Created**
- Device Host Template
- Device Endpoint
- Device Zone
- Virtual Machine Host Template
- Virtual Machine Endpoint
- Virtual Machine Zone

## Platform Automation
[`platform-automation.json`](platform-automation.json) imports Netbox Platforms (`dcim/platforms`). 

The Netbox Platform host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Platform Host Template
- Platform Host Families Group
- Platform Host Types Group
- Platform Host Versions Group

**Depends on in Netbox**

The platform automation depends on 3 custom fields on Netbox Platforms
- `platform_type` 
- `platform_family`
- `platform_version`

These custom fields would contain platform information in a monitoring friendly format. 

_The table below shows how these custom fields can be used_  
| Name              | Version  | Family  | Type  |
|-------------------|----------|---------|-------|
| Debian 12 (x64)                   | Debian 12             | Debian            | linux |
| Debian 12 (arm)                   | Debian 12             | Debian            | linux |
| Ubuntu 24.04                      | ubuntu 24.04          | Debian            | linux |
| Redhat 8                          | Redhat 8              | RHEL              | linux |
| Rocky Linux 9                     | Rocky Linux 9         | RHEL              | linux |
| macOS 15.01                       | macOS 15              | macOS             | bsd |
| Windows Server 2022 20348.2700    | Windows Server 2022   | Windows Server    | windows |
| Windows Server 2022 20348.230     | Windows Server 2022   | Windows Server    | windows |

## Role Automation
[`role-automation.json`](role-automation.json) imports Netbox Roles (`dcim/device-roles`). 

The Netbox Roles host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Roles Host Template
- Roles Host Group

## Site Automation
[`site-automation.json`](site-automation.json) imports Netbox Sites (`dcim/sites`) and Regions (`dcim/regions`). 

The Netbox Site host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Site Host Template
- Site Host Group
- Region Host Template
- Region Host Group

*Note the Site and Region templates use Icinga template inhertance to create a complete tree of all regions a site is part of.*

## Tag Automation
[`tag-automation.json`](site-automation.json) imports Netbox Tags (`extras/tags`). 

The Netbox Tag host groups created use an apply rule that depends on a var `host.vars.tags` added to Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices. The `host.vars.tags` variable should populated using the predefined `tag_slugs` column created by the import module in your sync rules for Icinga host object. 

**Objects Created**
- Tag Host Group

## Tenant Automation
[`tenant-automation.json`](tenant-automation.json) imports Netbox Tenant (`dcim/tenants`) and Tenant Groups (`dcim/tenant-groups`). 

The Netbox Tenant host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Tenant Host Template
- Tenant Host Group
- Tenant Group Host Template
- Tenant Group Host Group

Commit message:

Platform parent (#63)
FR: #61 Adds support for Netbox 4.4 feature, Platform Parent

-  `parent` becomes `platform_keyid`
-  New basket to support the inheritance structure

---------

Co-authored-by: Steffen Brandemann <steffen@dakloetz.de>

doc/baskets/README.md, after:

# Baskets
These Director baskets are predefined sets of import and sync rules, templates and groups that for the basis of setup for automationing objects out of Netbox.

While these baskets are related and can depend on each other to work "out of the box" you are encouraged to import only the bits that fit your requirements and modify them to suit your own need. 

The baskets setup Icinga objects directly related to Netbox objects as well as organization Icinga templates to make the management of related templates easier, eg: All Netbox Cluster objects imported as Icinga host templates have a parent template called `Netbox Clusters`.

## Host Automation
[`host-automation.json`](host-automation.json) imports Netbox Devices (`dcim/devices`) and Virtual Machines (`virtualization/virtual-machines`). 

_Hosts generally have their own sets of unique requirements for configuration. A virtual machine, AWS RDS instance and device will all have different host config requirements. The configuration provided here is a starting point for host automation based on the other baskets._

**Depends on in Netbox**

A Netbox custom field `icinga_import_source` as described in the [Zone and Endpoint Creation section of the main README](../../README.md) applied to Netbox Devices (`dcim/devices`) and Virtual Machines (`virtualization/virtual-machines`)

This custom field should have one selection option per import type such as `do_not_monitor`, `default`, `aws_rds` which will map to a source + object combination to create a unique Import Source data set.
eg:
- Default Devices
- Default Virtual Machines
- AWS RDS Virtual Machines

**Objects Created**
- Device Host 
- Device Host Group
- Virtual Machine Host
- Virtual Machine Host Group
- HostAlive Host Template (placeholder for all Hostalive templates)
  - hstt_alive_hostalive Host Template
- Netbox Object Type Host Template (placeholder for all Netbox Object Type templates)
  - hstt type device Host Template
  - hstt type virtual machine Host Template
- Netbox Source Host Template (placeholder for all `icinga_import_source` templates)
  - hstt import source default Host Template
- icinga_import_source Default Host Group

## Cluster Automation
[`cluster-automation.json`](cluster-automation.json) imports Netbox Clusters (`virtualization/clusters`), Cluster Types (`virtualization/cluster-types`) and Cluster Groups (`virtualization/cluster-groups`). 

The Netbox Cluster host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Cluster Host Template
- Cluster Host Group
- Cluster Type Host Template
- Cluster Type Host Group
- Cluster Group Host Template
- Cluster Group Host Group

## Endpoint Automation
[`endpoints-automation.json`](endpoints-automation.json) is the odd one out in this list of import. Endpoints aren't referening to a Netbox object that is being automated into Icinga but the creation of Icinga `Endpoints` and `Zones`.

Automation of endpoints from Netbox into Icinga has the advantage of allowing you to use Netbox as a way to automate the installation of endpoints using tools like Ansible, etc... because both Icinga and the installation automation tools are using the same source of truth.

**Depends on in Netbox**

A Netbox `tag` with the slug `icinga-endpoint` which would be applied to each device or virtual machine with Icinga to be installed on it. 

An alternative way to impliment this would be to have seperate tags for `icinga-satellite` and `icinga-agent` and have seperate imports sources and sync rules for each of these tags. The reason you need seperate import sources and sync rules with different tags is Netbox filters for tags are `and` not `or`, so we need seperate import sources.

If you have a Netbox custom field `icinga_import_source` as described in the [Zone and Endpoint Creation section of the main README](../../README.md) you can also add that to the filters. 


**Objects Created**
- Device Host Template
- Device Endpoint
- Device Zone
- Virtual Machine Host Template
- Virtual Machine Endpoint
- Virtual Machine Zone

## Platform Automation

The Netbox Platform host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

_As of Netbox 4.4.x there are 2 ways to automate platforms due to a change in the Netbox data structure_

### via parent/child
[`platform-parent-child-automation.json`](platform-parent-child-automation.json) imports Netbox Platforms (`dcim/platforms`). 
**Objects Created**
- Platform Host Template
- Platform Host Group

**Depends on in Netbox**
Netbox 4.4+ and platforms arranged with a parent/child relationships, eg: Linux -> Debian -> Debian 12 -> Debian 12 (x64). 

### via Custom Fields
[`platform-custom-fields-automation.json`](platform-custom-fields-automation.json) imports Netbox Platforms (`dcim/platforms`). 

**Objects Created**
- Platform Host Template
- Platform Host Families Group
- Platform Host Types Group
- Platform Host Versions Group

**Depends on in Netbox**

The platform automation depends on 3 custom fields on Netbox Platforms
- `platform_type` 
- `platform_family`
- `platform_version`

These custom fields would contain platform information in a monitoring friendly format. 

_The table below shows how these custom fields can be used_  
| Name              | Version  | Family  | Type  |
|-------------------|----------|---------|-------|
| Debian 12 (x64)                   | Debian 12             | Debian            | linux |
| Debian 12 (arm)                   | Debian 12             | Debian            | linux |
| Ubuntu 24.04                      | ubuntu 24.04          | Debian            | linux |
| Redhat 8                          | Redhat 8              | RHEL              | linux |
| Rocky Linux 9                     | Rocky Linux 9         | RHEL              | linux |
| macOS 15.01                       | macOS 15              | macOS             | bsd |
| Windows Server 2022 20348.2700    | Windows Server 2022   | Windows Server    | windows |
| Windows Server 2022 20348.230     | Windows Server 2022   | Windows Server    | windows |

## Role Automation
[`role-automation.json`](role-automation.json) imports Netbox Roles (`dcim/device-roles`). 

The Netbox Roles host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Roles Host Template
- Roles Host Group

## Site Automation
[`site-automation.json`](site-automation.json) imports Netbox Sites (`dcim/sites`) and Regions (`dcim/regions`). 

The Netbox Site host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Site Host Template
- Site Host Group
- Region Host Template
- Region Host Group

*Note the Site and Region templates use Icinga template inhertance to create a complete tree of all regions a site is part of.*

## Tag Automation
[`tag-automation.json`](site-automation.json) imports Netbox Tags (`extras/tags`). 

The Netbox Tag host groups created use an apply rule that depends on a var `host.vars.tags` added to Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices. The `host.vars.tags` variable should populated using the predefined `tag_slugs` column created by the import module in your sync rules for Icinga host object. 

**Objects Created**
- Tag Host Group

## Tenant Automation
[`tenant-automation.json`](tenant-automation.json) imports Netbox Tenant (`dcim/tenants`) and Tenant Groups (`dcim/tenant-groups`). 

The Netbox Tenant host templates created from this can be imported to your Icinga host objects created from virtual machines or devices, these host objects will then have all templates and groups associated.

**Objects Created**
- Tenant Host Template
- Tenant Host Group
- Tenant Group Host Template
- Tenant Group Host Group
